setup/README.md, before:

# Local Setup Instructions

This document provides instructions for setting the environment up locally.

<br>
<br>

## 1. Download and install Miniforge

Download miniforge from the GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge).

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/download.png" alt="download" width="600px">

Depending on your operating system, this should download either an `.sh` (macOS, Linux) or `.exe` file (Windows).

For the `.sh` file, open your command line terminal and execute the following command

```bash
sh ~/Desktop/Miniforge3-MacOSX-arm64.sh
```

where `Desktop/` is the folder where the Miniforge installer was downloaded to. On your computer, you may have to replace it with `Downloads/`.

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/miniforge-install.png" alt="miniforge-install" width="600px">

Next, step through the download instructions, confirming with "Enter".



If you work with many packages, Conda can be slow because of its thorough but complex dependency resolution process and the handling of large package indexes and metadata. To speed up Conda, you can use the following setting, which switches to a more efficient Rust reimplementation for solving dependencies:

```
conda config --set solver libmamba
```

<br>
<br>


## 2. Create a new virtual environment

After the installation was successfully completed, I recommend creating a new virtual environment called `LLMs`, which you can do by executing

```bash
conda create -n LLMs python=3.10
```

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/new-env.png" alt="new-env" width="600px">

> Many scientific computing libraries do not immediately support the newest version of Python. Therefore, when installing PyTorch, it's advisable to use a version of Python that is one or two releases older. For instance, if the latest version of Python is 3.13, using Python 3.10 or 3.11 is recommended.

Next, activate your new virtual environment (you have to do it every time you open a new terminal window or tab):

```bash
conda activate LLMs
```

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/activate-env.png" alt="activate-env" width="600px">

<br>

## 3. Install required Python libraries

To install these requirements most conveniently, you can use the `requirements.txt` file in the root directory for this code repository and execute the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Commit message:

Added note for adjust with local environment differences

setup/README.md, after:

# Local Setup Instructions

This document provides instructions for setting the environment up locally.

<br>
<br>

## 1. Download and install Miniforge

Download miniforge from the GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge).

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/download.png" alt="download" width="600px">

Depending on your operating system, this should download either an `.sh` (macOS, Linux) or `.exe` file (Windows).

For the `.sh` file, open your command line terminal and execute the following command

```bash
sh ~/Desktop/Miniforge3-MacOSX-arm64.sh
```

where `Desktop/` is the folder where the Miniforge installer was downloaded to. On your computer, you may have to replace it with `Downloads/`.

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/miniforge-install.png" alt="miniforge-install" width="600px">

Next, step through the download instructions, confirming with "Enter".



If you work with many packages, Conda can be slow because of its thorough but complex dependency resolution process and the handling of large package indexes and metadata. To speed up Conda, you can use the following setting, which switches to a more efficient Rust reimplementation for solving dependencies:

```
conda config --set solver libmamba
```

<br>
<br>


## 2. Create a new virtual environment

After the installation was successfully completed, I recommend creating a new virtual environment called `LLMs`, which you can do by executing

```bash
conda create -n LLMs python=3.10
```

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/new-env.png" alt="new-env" width="600px">

> Many scientific computing libraries do not immediately support the newest version of Python. Therefore, when installing PyTorch, it's advisable to use a version of Python that is one or two releases older. For instance, if the latest version of Python is 3.13, using Python 3.10 or 3.11 is recommended.

Next, activate your new virtual environment (you have to do it every time you open a new terminal window or tab):

```bash
conda activate LLMs
```

__2 notes from CT:__
_ __You may be prompted to run `conda init` first, and that adds information to your `~/.bash_profile`.  In my case, I wanted to move that to my `~/.bashrc` (since my `.bash_profile` merely sourced the `.bashrc`)__
_ __Second, up to now, it was necessary to call `conda` in its full path (`~/miniforge3/bin/conda`), but after the `init` and reloading the environment, you should use the one in your path (continuing to use the FQN didn't work for me).__

<img src="https://sebastianraschka.com/images/LLMs-from-scratch-images/setup/01_optional-python-setup-preferences/activate-env.png" alt="activate-env" width="600px">

<br>

## 3. Install required Python libraries

To install these requirements most conveniently, you can use the `requirements.txt` file in the root directory for this code repository and execute the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
